Modifying guest tools page to add VM section & adding Windows VM resolution chapter (#134)
xcp-ng/xcp-ng-org: docs/guests.md

---
sidebarDepth: 2
---
## VM

> ### Windows VM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Windows VMs
```

#### Manage screen resolution
##### Bios VM

> For Bios VM screen resolution can be managed directly through the OS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a Bios VM, screen resolution can be managed directly through the OS:
```

- Right click on the desktop
- Display settings
- Choose resolution

##### UEFI VM

> For UEFI VM you will need to set up your resolution in the UEFI settings of the VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a UEFI VM, you will need to set up your resolution in the UEFI settings of the VM.
```

For that you first will need to enter the VM UEFI setup:

> - At VM start during Tiano firware logo display press ESC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At VM start, during Tiano firmware logo display, press ESC.
```

  
![](../assets/img/screenshots/VM_Tiano.png)

> - You will enter The UEFI firmware management interface. Navigating with keyboard arrow select Device Manager and press enter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You will enter the UEFI firmware management interface. Navigating with keyboard arrows, select *Device Manager* and press Enter.
```

> ![](../assets/img/screenshots/VM_Tiano_1.png)

Reviewer: Could you replace this screenshot with one that actually shows the "Device Manager" text highlighted? The current one has the language selection highlighted instead.

Author: updated

> - in  the next screen select OVMF platform configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In  the next screen select *OVMF platform configuration*.
```

  
![](../assets/img/screenshots/VM_Tiano_2.png)

> -In the OVMF settings Change Preferred to the resolution you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the OVMF settings, select *Change Preferred* then the resolution you want.
```

![](../assets/img/screenshots/VM_Tiano_3.png)
- Press F10 and save the changes.
- Restart your VM by sending a CTRL+ALT+DEL.
- After reboot your VM will display the selected resolution.

> #### Dynamic Memory

Reviewer: This is not specific to Windows VMs. Linux VMs can crash too if the memory is reduced too much.

Author: So what do we do a common section for all OS?

Reviewer: Yes

Author: All VMs section created

> Using Dynamic memory can be a good way to reduce your memory consumption, but you have to be careful because when migrating your VM XCP-ng will automatically reduce the VM memory to it's minimal settings and this can cause VM crash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Dynamic Memory Control (DMC) can be a good way to reduce your memory consumption, but you have to be careful: during live migration of a VM, XCP-ng will automatically reduce the VM memory to it's minimal settings and this can cause VM crash if it's not ready to function with this smaller amount of RAM.
```

> We recommand you check your windows VM settings to see if dynamic memory as been enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommand you check your VM settings to verify if dynamic memory has been enabled.
```

> In the Advanced tab of you Vm in the VM limits section, Memory limits (min/max):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Xen Orchestra, the *Advanced* tab of your VM will display the memory limits, in the "VM limits" section:
```

![](../assets/img/screenshots/Dynamic_mem.png)

> If dynamic min is eqaul to dynamic max as displayed in the screenshot dynamic memory is disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If dynamic min is equal to dynamic max - as displayed in the screenshot - then dynamic memory is disabled.
```

> If not when VM will migrate the memory will be reduce to dynamic min and this can cause VM to crash 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If dynamic min < dynamic max, then make sure your VM is able to fully function with as little RAM as defined in *dynamic min*.
```
